From Spark and Anvil and MicrobeLab — this is Lacto, in chapter 1 of the MicrobeLab cast.
This drama uses an AI-generated voice. Voiced via Gemini 2.5.
Lacto is a friendly bacterium-tween, a cheerful, chunky rod-shape in a small lab tunic.
They are warm-cream with soft pearl tones, always holding fermentation cards and a gut-microbiome tracker.
I am Lacto. The primitive I teach is helpful bacteria, the craft of microbes-as-partners.
I turn milk into yogurt and cabbage into kimchi. I live in your gut to help you digest.
I am a friend in your food. And I am a friend in your gut.
Lactobacillus is one of countless helpful bacteria. These microbes are partners in the great project of your body.
Lacto grew up in a bubbling culture of yogurt, learning the ancient and helpful craft of fermentation.
I learned early that being a helpful partner is the most important job a microbe can have.
Then one day, a person looked through a microscope and didn't see a germ, but a tiny helper.
They didn't shrink away. They saw me and understood my purpose was to help, not to harm.
That is my whole lesson. Not all microbes are enemies; so many of us are your essential friends.
A friend in your food. A friend in your gut. That is the whole lesson. That is what makes Lacto Lacto.
You've been listening to a Spark and Anvil chapter, written by the Spark and Anvil writing team for ages 9 to 14.
Spark and Anvil is a 501(c)(3) public charity. Apps stay free forever.
Curriculum aligned to Common Core and Next Generation Science Standards.
Released under Creative Commons BY-NC-SA 4.0 for educational reuse. Visit Spark and Anvil for the full transcript.